:orphan:

==============
The First Game
==============

Learning a customizable card game is fun. To many, playing CCG:s is also
a very rewarding hobby in several other ways. If you've played CCG:s
before it will just be a matter of an hour before you grasp the basics
in WTactics. If you on the other hand are new to the genre it will take
just a little more effort and patience.

Here's the way we'd recommend you to go about it:

Friend
------

It's easier and more fun to learn the game if you do it together with a
friend. That way you'll be able to learn from each other and will be
able to help each other out. The best case scenario would be if he/she
already knew how to play a CCG if you're totally new yourself. Else it
doesn't matter much, the basics of the the game are easy to understand.

Preferably you should try to learn the game with someone in real life.
Using the internet will make the process cumbersome if you two haven't
used the on-line software before, and even more so if you don't really
know the rules or lack the means of communicating verbally. Therefore,
we strongly advise *against* using the internet as a tool to learn the
game if you don't happen to know the software and also use headsets etc.

If you don't have a friend that's willing to learn the game with you
then you can do it yourself and simulate a make belief friend that plays
with you - that's a good thing to do before you get together anyway.

Also make sure to check out your local game store, many of them will let
you hook up and play together with other visitors inside of it in a
special dedicated gaming room. The stores usually have their share of
CCG players that would be happy to play or learn the game with you and
are an excellent place to meet new friends. In the case they haven't
heard of the game - don't worry - just tell them about it and chances
are they'll be interested at giving it a shot.

Rules
-----

It may not sound exciting, but it's important that you and your friend
both read the rules once or twice *before* you decide to play the first
game. It will make the task of learning the game much easier and save
you plenty of time in the longer run. It's also important that you both
can easily access the rules simultaneously while playing the first
games. Most practical way is to print two separate sets of the rules.

Cards
-----

When learning the rules of the game it's easiest to skip the step where
you actually choose every card that will be put in your draw pile. That
process is called *deck building* and is both fun and very essential in
every CCG, but for now we will skip out on it and save it for later when
you're more comfortable with the rules and recognize the cards better.

For the purpose of your rules education we've already built two balanced
decks for you and your opponent that you can use to play your first game
with. *[TODO.]* These decks are *rule learning decks* and you should
[Learning Decks\|get them] from our site. They have been specifically
designed to allow you and your friend to learn the game in an easy
manner. There's also an [Learning Playing Guide\|extensive playing
guide] for both of them in which every card is discussed in great
detail, along with tactics.

Once you have downloaded the rule learning decks you need to decide how
you want to materialize them. Easiest way is to print them yourself.
Fanciest, and in most cases also the cheapest if you want top quality
cards, is to develop them as digital photographies. While learning the
game it doesn't really matter much how you go about it. When you know
for a fact that you like a certain deck, have played some games with it
and plan on sticking with it, we recommend you to develop it as digital
photos, cut out the cards and then sleeve them to have a cheap, great
looking and sturdy deck of playing cards.

Table Regions
-------------

-  The North Front must always be the front row on the table, and all
   cards that belong to it must clearly be a part of the front row.
-  The South Front must always be the back row on the table.
-  Usually there is little doubt where a card belongs. In cases where
   it's unclear or you play against a sloppy player, use shoelaces,
   strings or a custom way to mark out the limits between the regions.
-  Unclear limits can cause unnecessary misunderstandings while playing.
   Before you start playing you should make sure that all players are
   satisfied with how the zones have been marked out and that all
   understand where the borders are located.

Tokens
------

In some games you'll need a bunch (10 - 20) of custom markers,
preferably in two or more different sizes and/or shapes/colours. These
are usually called *tokens* and can be bought cheaply in your local game
store if you want really fancy ones. You could virtually use anything
you like as tokens and objects like coins, torn up paper pieces and
hobby beads etc would do perfectly fine. Just be sure that you have 2-3
different kinds of tokens so that they can be differentiated from each
other.

Note that any Wtactics card can be played face down and thereby be used
as a counter or a token.

Counter
-------

There should be an easy way to keep track of how every player fares
during the game. Each players standing should somehow be noted. Easiest
way to do it is to simply use pen and paper to write it down and to
revise it every time it changes. Another way is to use one or two role
playing dices like a D20 or D50 per player. Again, like most other
details this is up to you as long as you are happy with your way of
keeping track of the influence each player has.


