Quick Start
===========

Introduction
------------
Welcome to the quick start guide. For more comprehensive rules, please see the
official rulebook.

This quick start guide is meant to guide players through their first game of
WTactics. Rather than explaining everything about the game *before* you play,
it is intended that you keep this guide beside you *during* a game as a quick
reference. This guide is structured to follow the logical sequence of a game of
WTactics. As such, qualities about the game are only revealed once they are
needed. Should you find yourself longing for more detail, links to the
exhaustive rulebook have been included for your convenience.

Basic Card Anatomy
------------------
In every Trading Card Game (TCG) the most important component (other than the
player of course!) is the card. In this section, we introduce just enough
information about the parts of a card to get you started. More detailed
information (such as that which might be useful to collectors or card
designers) may be found in the official rulebook. 

While there are numerous card *types*, they can be more generally categorized
by one of two layouts:

.. glossary::

   Creature Layout
      This layout is only used for creature types::

         +-----------------------+------+
         |                       |      |
         |                       +------+
         |                              |
         |                          +---+
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          +---+
         |                              |
         +------------------------------+
         |               |              |
         |               +--------------+
         |               |              |
         |               +--------------+
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                  +-----+-----+
         |                  |     |     |
         +------------------+-----+-----+

   Support Layout
      All other card types use this layout::

         +--------------+--------+------+
         |              |        |      |
         +--------------+        +------+
         |              |               |
         +--------------+           +---+
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          |   |
         |                          +---+
         |                              |
         +------------------------------+
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         |                              |
         +------------------------------+

Soon, we will discuss the different parts of a card, but for now it should be
enough to recognize that there exists two layouts.


Table Setup
-----------
For a two-player game, each player has five zones which face each other as
follows::

   +-------+------+---------Player 2----+
   |       | Deck |                     |
   +-------+------+---------------------+
   |                     |
   +---------------------+
   |                     |
   +=====================+
   |                     |
   +---------------------+
   |                     |
   +---------------------+------+-------+
   |                     | Deck |       |
   +-Player 1------------+------+-------+

The astute reader might have noticed that asside from each player's side being
properly labelled, the only identified zone seems to be the "Deck" zone. This
is done on purpose. Each of the other zones will be revealed once the become
important to the game. For now, each player should simply place their decks 
**face down** in the appropriate their respective "Deck" zones.

Once each player is ready decide who goes first by flipping a coin, rolling a
die, or playing rock-paper-scissors.

Turn Structure
--------------
Each turn consists of a number of phases which dictate which cards may be
played, by whom, and he conditions under which those cards may be played. The
following subsections explain exactly what those are, so don't worry if that
doesn't make sense right now. Once one player completes all the phases as
outlined below, it is the next player's turn. 

Mulligan
~~~~~~~~
At the start of a player's first turn he is allowed to :term:`mulligan` as many
times as he wishes and is able.

.. glossary:: 

   mulligan
      To mulligan means to shuffle the cards drawn back into the deck and draw
      the appropriate amount of cards. During the first mulligan, the
      appropriate amount of cards is the same amount of cards returned to the
      deck. In subsequent mulligans, the appropriate amount of cards is the 
      number of cards returned to the deck *minus* one.

      Example:

      If a player decides to perform three mulligans in a game that starts
      by drawing seven cards, he would:
         
         * return those seven cards to the deck, shuffle, and draw seven
           more
         
         * return those seven cards to the deck, shuffle, and raw *six* more

         * return those six cards to the deck and draw *five* more
      

Unmark/Unassign Phase
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase

Upkeep
~~~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase

Draw
~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase

Play
~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase

Move/Attack
~~~~~~~~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase

Entrance
~~~~~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase

Discard
~~~~~~~
.. todo::
   * describe what happens during this phase
   * break down terms or concepts introduced by this phase
   * introduce zones affected by this phase
